Earlier, you worked with
a few different ways to
represent text data.
When using neural
networks for NLP tasks,
embedding layers are often
included in the model.
Going forward, I will
introduce embedding layers,
and explain why you will need
to include layers such as
the mean layer in serial models
directly after your
embedding layer.
Let's now dive into
the embedding layer.
In NLP, you usually have
a set of unique words
called the vocabulary.
An embedding layer takes
an index assigned
to each word from
your vocabulary and maps it to
a representation of that word
with a determined dimension.
In this example, embedding
of size equal to two.
For instance, the embedding
layer in this example,
we'll return a vector
equal to 0.020,
and 0.006 for the word I,
and negative 0.009 and
0.050 for the word NLP.
Every value from this part of
the table is trainable in tracks.
When using an embedding
layer in your model,
you will learn the
representation that
gives the best performance
for your NLP task.
For the embedding
layer in your model,
you'd have to learn
a matrix of weights,
of size equal to
your vocabulary times the
dimension of the embedding.
The size of the
embedding could be
treated as a hyperparameter
in your model.
With this layer, your model can
learn or improve the
word embeddings for
your NLP task like it
improves the weights
matrices on each layer.
The embedding layer is able
to map words to embeddings.
If you had a series of words,
like a tweet that says,
"I am happy," the
embedding layer will
map each of those words to
their corresponding embedding,
and return a matrix
of word embeddings.
If you had padded vectors
representing your tweets,
you could unroll
this matrix and feed
its values to the next layer
on the neural network.
But in doing this,
you might end up with lots
of parameters to train.
As an alternative, you could just
take the mean of each
feature from the embedding,
and that's exactly what the
mean layer does in tracks.
After the mean
layer, you will have
the same number of features
as you're embedding size.
Even for sequences of texts,
those are very long.
Note that this layer doesn't have
any trainable
parameters because it's
only computing the mean
of the word embeddings.
At this point, you are familiar
with what's embedding layers,
and mean layers are,
and how they work.
An important takeaway
here is that using
an embedding layer in
your model allows you to
learn a good representation of
your vocabulary for the specific
task you're working on,
and that's the mean layer
takes a matrix of embeddings,
and returns a vector
representation
for a set of words, like tweets.